<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/temp/xhtml/dev_ref?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/temp/xhtml/dev_ref/?><?path2project ../?><?path2project-uri ../?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN?><?doctype-system concept.dtd?><concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" id="history-pdf-transformation" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="concept:1;5:42">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="title:1;6:10">History of the PDF transformation</title>
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;7:14">The DITA Open Toolkit PDF transformation was originally based on a third-party contribution by Idiom
    Technologies, and is commonly known as the “pdf2” plug-in.</shortdesc>
  <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="conbody:1;9:12">
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="p:1;10:8">When IBM developed the code that later became the DITA-OT, it included only a proof-of-concept PDF
      transformation. IBM had their own processing chain for producing PDFs from SGML, which they had developed over
      several decades, so resources were focused primarily on XHTML output and preprocessing.</p>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="p:2;13:8">Since the initial proof-of-concept transformation was not robust enough for production-grade output, companies
      began to develop their own PDF transformations. One company, Idiom Technologies, made their transformation (known
      as the “pdf2” transformation) available as open source on 23 February 2006. The Idiom plug-in was initially
      available as a separately-downloadable plug-in that could be integrated into the DITA-OT. </p>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="p:3;17:8">Later the DITA-OT project formally incorporated the Idiom plug-in as a demonstration in the
        <filepath class="+ topic/ph sw-d/filepath " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="filepath:1;18:19">demo/fo</filepath> directory. Beginning with DITA-OT version 1.5, released 18 December 2009, the
      “pdf2” code served as the main, supported PDF transformation. (The original PDF transformation was deprecated and
      renamed “legacypdf”.) In DITA-OT version 1.6, the “pdf2” plug-in was moved to
        <filepath class="+ topic/ph sw-d/filepath " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="filepath:2;21:19">plugins/org.dita.pdf2</filepath>. </p>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="p:4;22:8">The fact that the current PDF transformation was not originally developed in parallel with the other core DITA-OT
      transformations led to anomalies that often confuse users:</p>
    <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="ul:1;24:9">
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="li:1;25:11">Elements are often (by default) styled differently in the XHTML and PDF transformations. For example, consider
        the <xmlelement class="+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname xml-d/xmlelement " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="xmlelement:1;26:25">info</xmlelement> element in a task topic. In HTML output, this is an inline element; in PDF
        output, it is a block-level element.</li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="li:2;28:11">The auto-generated strings used for localization are different, and so languages that are supported by the
        DITA-OT differ based on whether the XHTML or PDF transformation is used.</li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="li:3;30:11">The Idiom plug-in used its own extension mechanism (the <filepath class="+ topic/ph sw-d/filepath " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="filepath:3;30:77">Customization</filepath> folder) to provide
        overrides to the PDF transformation.</li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-transformation-history.dita" xtrc="li:4;32:11">Before the release of DITA 1.1 (which added support for the indexing domain), Idiom developed an index
        extension that used a FrameMaker-inspired syntax.</li>
    </ul>
  </conbody>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:2;8:55" xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-customization.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " format="dita" href="../dev_ref/pdf-customization.dita" mapclass="- map/topicref " role="parent" scope="local" type="task" xtrc="topicref:1;7:43" xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/pdf-customization.ditamap"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Customizing PDF output</linktext><?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc ">You can create custom DITA-OT plug-ins that build on the default DITA to PDF transformation. Plug-ins can     customize covers and page layouts, modify formatting, override logic of the default PDF plug-in, and much     more.</desc></link></linkpool></related-links></concept>