<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/temp/xhtml/dev_ref?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/temp/xhtml/dev_ref/?><?path2project ../?><?path2project-uri ../?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN?><?doctype-system concept.dtd?><concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" id="plugin-benefits" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="concept:1;3:31">
 <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="title:1;4:9">Benefits of plug-ins</title>
 <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;5:13">Plug-ins permit users to extend the toolkit in a way that is consistent, easy-to-share,
  and possible to preserve through toolkit upgrades.</shortdesc>
 <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="conbody:1;7:11">
  <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="p:1;8:6">The DITA-OT plug-in mechanism provides the following benefits:</p>
    <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="ul:1;9:9">
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="li:1;10:11">Plug-ins can easily be shared with other users, teams, or companies. Typically, all users need to do is to
        unzip and run a single integration step. With many builds, even that integration step is automatic.</li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="li:2;12:11">Plug-ins permit overrides or customizations to grow from simple to complex over time, with no increased
        complexity to the extension mechanism.</li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="li:3;14:11">Plug-ins can be moved from version to version of the DITA-OT simply by reinstalling or copying the directory
        from one installation to another. There is no need to re-integrate code based on updates to the core processing
        of the DITA-OT.</li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plugin-benefits.dita" xtrc="li:4;17:11">Plug-ins can build upon each other. If you like a plug-in, simply install that plug-in, and then create your
        own plug-in that builds on top of it. The two plug-ins can then be distributed to your team as a unit, or you
        can share your own extensions with the original provider.</li>
    </ul>
 </conbody>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:3;9:46" xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plug-ins.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " format="dita" href="../dev_ref/plugins-overview.dita" mapclass="- map/topicref " role="parent" scope="local" type="concept" xtrc="topicref:2;8:44" xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/plug-ins.ditamap"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Overview of plug-ins</linktext><?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc ">Plug-ins enable users to extend the functionality of the DITA-OT. This might entail adding support for     specialized document types, integrating processing overrides, or defining new output     transformations.</desc></link></linkpool></related-links></concept>