<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/temp/xhtml/dev_ref?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/temp/xhtml/dev_ref/?><?path2project ../?><?path2project-uri ../?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN?><?doctype-system concept.dtd?><concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" id="processing-pipeline-modules" xml:lang="en-US" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="concept:1;5:60">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="title:1;6:10">Processing modules</title>
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;7:14">The DITA-OT processing pipeline is implemented using Ant. Individual modules within the Ant script are
    implemented in either Java or XSLT, depending on such factors as performance or requirements for customization.
    Virtually all Ant and XSLT modules can be extended by adding a plug-in to the toolkit; new Ant targets may be
    inserted before or after common processing, and new rules may be imported into common XSLT modules to override
    default processing.</shortdesc>
  <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="conbody:1;12:12">
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="section:1;13:14">
      <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="title:2;14:14">XSLT modules</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="p:1;15:10">The XSLT modules use shell files. Typically, each shell file begins by importing common rules that apply to all
        topics. This set of common processing rules may in turn import additional common modules, such as those used for
        reporting errors or determining the document locale. After the common rules are imported, additional imports can
        be included in order to support processing for DITA specializations.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="p:2;19:10">For example, XHTML processing is controlled by the <filepath class="+ topic/ph sw-d/filepath " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="filepath:1;19:71">xsl/dita2xhtml.xsl</filepath> file. The shell
        begins by importing common rules that are applicable to all general topics:
          <filepath class="+ topic/ph sw-d/filepath " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="filepath:2;21:21">xslhtml/dita2htmlImpl.xsl</filepath>. After that, additional XSLT overrides are imported for
        specializations that require modified processing. For example, an override for reference topics is imported in
        order to add default headers to property tables. Additional modules are imported for tasks, for the highlighting
        domain, and for several other standard specializations. After the standard XSLT overrides occur, plug-ins may
        add in additional processing rules for local styles or for additional specializations.</p>
    </section>
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="section:2;27:14">
      <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="title:3;28:14">Java modules</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/processing-pipeline-modules.dita" xtrc="p:3;29:10">Java modules are typically used when XSLT is a poor fit, such as for processes that make use of standard Java
        libraries (like those used for index sorting). Java modules are also used in many cases where a step involves
        copying files, such as the initial process where source files are parsed and copied to a temporary processing
        directory.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:3;9:56" xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/dev_ref.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " format="dita" href="../dev_ref/DITA-OTArchitecture.dita" mapclass="- map/topicref " role="parent" scope="local" type="concept" xtrc="topicref:1;7:45" xtrf="file:/Users/ekimber/workspace-ditaot/dita-ot-2.x/src/main/docsrc/dev_ref/dev_ref.ditamap"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Architecture of the DITA Open Toolkit</linktext><?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc ">The DITA Open Toolkit is an open-source implementation of the OASIS specification for the Darwin     Information Typing Architecture. The toolkit uses Ant, XSLT, and Java to transform DITA content (maps and     topics) into different deliverable formats.</desc></link></linkpool></related-links></concept>